hello listeners welcome back to my
podcast for Learners of English today I
just want to tell you another story
so just listen and enjoy it and I'll use
it to help you learn English so I'm
going to start the story uh today in
this episode in just a moment but first
let me tell you a few things about the
story to get you ready so you understand
it a bit better okay so today's story is
about an antiques dealer a story about
an antiques dealer an antiques dealer is
a person who buys and sells antiques
uh antiques are very old objects
especially items of furniture so we're
talking about old uh chairs tables
chests of drawers paintings maybe other
decorative items
okay buying and selling antiques is very
common and very popular in the UK
there's quite a big market for antique
furniture in the United Kingdom what
about in your country
is there a big market for antiques where
you come from
do people buy and sell old furniture
can you get rich doing that and do you
have any items of furniture that
actually might be very valuable perhaps
in your home in The Loft upstairs or
maybe at your parents or grandparents
house or something
have you ever thought about that if you
actually have any potentially valuable
items that you could find and sell and
who knows maybe you could become rich
selling some of the things that you've
got in your home or maybe you all your
possessions are worthless I don't know
your life
but who knows maybe that old chair
that's been in the family for decades
might actually be worth a fortune
selling antiques can be quite a
profitable business but only if you can
find the right items buy them for a good
price and then sell them for a big
profit and this means if you are an
antiques dealer this means finding
objects which are old obviously and the
older the better well made especially if
they were made by well-known designers
or furniture makers still in good
condition
and then rare unique or part of a famous
collection and you have to be very lucky
or perhaps very clever if you want to
find a real bargain and that means a
valuable piece for a very good price
okay uh and dealers and that's antique
Steelers not drug dealers
dealers will always be on the lookout
for valuable antiques that could be
worth hundreds thousands or even
millions of pounds like for example a
very precious Chippendale commode
which is a fairly well-known uh antique
chest of drawers built by Thomas
Chippendale in the 18th century
this is an example of like famous a
famous set of antiques if you find a
Chip and Dale commode that could be
worth millions of pounds
okay a chest of drawers is like the sort
of thing that you would have in your
home with drawers in it you open the
drawers you can keep things in it most
of us get our chests of drawers from
places like Ikea right and you have to
build them yourself
um but uh if you find a chippendaleca
mode that one would have been made by
Thomas Chippendale in the 18th century
one of those was sold for nearly four
million pounds a few years ago
so that's that's the real Target if
you're an antiques dealer finding
something like that now
the story I'm going to read to you is
about an antiques dealer who uses a
particular trick to find very valuable
antiques
the story has a really good little twist
at the end and I think you will really
enjoy it so the story is called Parsons
pleasure by roll Dahl
um let me just explain that so a person
uh that's a person not a person I think
you know what a person is but a person
this is basically another word for a
priest or a vicar this is a a person
usually a man depending on the rules of
the church a person normally a man
um these days it can be women can become
members of the clergy
anyway
a person is someone who leads services
in a local church in England so a person
is in the Anglican Church system
so similar words would be a vicar a
priest a member of the clergy or a
clergyman
a person right do you know what I'm
talking about Parsons usually wear a
black jacket and a black shirt with a
white collar
uh it's a bit of a cliche of rural
English life if you think of sort of
images of old-fashioned English life in
the countryside in a town somewhere in
the countryside the sort of images that
you imagine you would see nice country
lanes Farms Old Country houses and maybe
a person on a bicycle popping round to
someone's house for tea or something
like that
so this story is about a man who isn't a
person but he dresses like a person okay
he's not a person but he dresses like
one now why would someone do that
why would someone pretend to be a
clergyman or a person
why would someone pretend to be one and
what is the connection to the Antiques
trade
so I'm just getting you to think about
that it'll prepare you for the story
we'll find out in a moment so the story
was written by Roald Dahl obviously all
the credit for the story goes to him
Roald Dahl is one of the UK's most
popular authors he wrote lots of books
for children but also lots of great
short stories for adults you can find
this story in collections of his work
published by penguin and I highly
recommend that you buy some of Roald
Dahl's books they are great for learning
English they're very well written easy
to read clever entertaining and full of
descriptive language so if you're
looking for things to read in English
then I really recommend Roald Dahl's
work
and I suggest that you get a copy of
this book the one that I've got which is
the complete short stories by Roald Dahl
published by penguin it's actually a two
volume book
and it contains all of his short stories
um so that book should be available in
all good bookshops the complete short
stories volumes one and two you'll find
a link for it in the description for
this episode the story I'm reading today
is included in volume 2 of the complete
short stories
and I'm going to read a slightly
Abridged version of that story okay not
the full story just a a an Abridged
version that means it's been edited to
make it slightly shorter so this
Abridged version appears actually in an
Old English course book that I used to
use in English lessons ages ago at the
start of my teaching career so this
Abridged version is in um
this book Headway Advanced by Liz and
John saws some of you might have used it
too maybe to learn English or maybe even
to teach English because I do have
English teachers watching this as well
so this
this is the first edition of Headway
Advance published in the 1990s I think
by Oxford University press now when
we're nearly ready to start the story I
promise
I'm going to read this story to you
twice first I'll read it all in one go
and you just have to try to follow
what's happening then I'll summarize it
in my own words to make sure you've
understood it I'll just sort of like
retell the story again myself to make it
maybe a little clearer and after that
I'll go through the story again and I'll
explain some of the vocabulary all right
and then I'll give my comments and stuff
as well
the time period for this uh the story
was first published in 1958 so it is
slightly old-fashioned but not too much
um money as well money is mentioned a
few times in the story as the characters
discuss the price of a certain piece of
furniture of course money has changed
its value
um since the story was written because
of inflation so just to kind of help you
understand how much money is being
talked about you could multiply
everything by about 30 let's say so one
pound in 1958 is worth about 30 pounds
now that's around about 35 US dollars or
35 Euros depending on when you listen to
this
um so one pound would be 30 pounds now a
thousand pounds in 1950
1958 would be
um uh 30 000 pounds now uh 20 pounds in
1958 would be can you do the maths 600
pounds now and 20 000 pounds in 1958 in
today's money would be about 600 000
pounds that's over half a million okay
right so let's start now Mr Bogus is the
antique dealer's name
okay so just a couple of questions to
get you focused where is he at the start
what is he doing what's he looking for
what kind of person is bogus and what
happened nine years ago but mainly can
you follow the story and guess what is
going to happen next let's get started
okay here we go Mr Bogus stopped the car
just short of the summit got out and
looked around it was perfect He Could
See For Miles
over on the right he spotted a medium
Farmhouse Beyond it was a larger one
there was a house that might be a Queen
Anne and there were two likely Farms
over on the left five places in all
then he drove to the other side of the
hill where he saw six more possibles
five farms and one big Georgian house
he ruled out the latter it looked
prosperous
and there was no point in calling on the
apart from the fact that he was at this
moment disguised as a clergyman there
was nothing very Sinister about Cyril
bogus by trade a dealer in antique
furniture with a shop in the King's Road
Chelsea bogus had achieved a
considerable reputation by producing
unusual items with astonishing
regularity
when asked where he got them he would
wink and murmur something about a little
secret
bogus's little secret was a result of
something that happened on a Sunday
afternoon nearly nine years before while
he was driving in the country the car
had overheated and he'd walked to a
farmhouse to ask for a jug of water
while he was waiting for it he glanced
through the door and spotted a large Oak
armchair
the back panel was decorated by an inlay
of the most delicate floral design
and the head of a duck was carved on
either arm
good God he thought this thing is late
17th century
he poked his head in further
was another one on the other side of the
fireplace two chairs like that must be
worth at least a thousand pounds up in
London
when the woman of the house returned
bogus asked if she would like to sell
her chairs
they weren't for sale she said but just
out of curiosity how much would he give
they bargained for half an hour and in
the end of course bogus got the chairs
for less than a 20th of their value
returning to London in his station wagon
bogus had an idea
if there was good stuff in one Farmhouse
why not in others
on Sundays why couldn't he comb the
countryside the isolated places the farm
houses the dilapidated country Mansions
would be his Target
But Country folk are a suspicious lot
perhaps it would be best if he didn't
let them know he was a dealer
he could be the telephone man the
plumber the gas inspector
he could even be a clergyman
hmm
bogus ordered a large quantity of
superior cards on which the following
Legend was engraved the Reverend Cyril
Winnington bogus president of the
society for the preservation of rare
Furniture in association with the
Victoria and Albert Museum
from now on every Sunday he was going to
be a nice old Parson traveling around on
a labor of love for the society
compiling an inventory of the treasures
that lay hidden in country homes the
scheme worked in fact it became a
lucrative business
and now it was another Sunday
bogus parked some distance from the
gates of his first house the Queen Anne
he never liked his car to be seen until
a deal was made a dear old clergyman and
a large station wagon never seemed quite
right together
but there was nothing of value in the
house
at the next stop no one was home
the third a farmhouse was back in the
fields it looked rambling and dirty he
didn't hold out much hope for it
three men were standing in the yard
when they caught sight of the small
pot-bellied man in his black suit and
Parsons collar they stopped talking and
watched him suspiciously
the farm owner was a Stumpy man with
small Shifty eyes whose name was Rummins
the tall youth beside him was his son
Bert the short man with broad shoulders
was clawed a neighbor
and what exactly might you be wanting
Romans asked
Bargains explained at some length the
aims and ideals for the society for the
preservation of rare furniture
we don't have any said Romans you're
wasting your time
now just a minute sir
bogus said raising a finger the last man
who said that to me was an old farmer
down in Sussex and when he finally let
me into his house do you know what I
found
a dirty looking old chair in the kitchen
that turned out to be worth 400 pounds
I showed him how to sell it and he
bought himself a new tractor with the
money
Romans shifted uneasily on his feet
well he said there's no harm in you
taking a look
he led the way into an exceedingly
filthy living room
and there it was
bogus saw it at once and gasped
he stood staring
for 10 seconds at least
not daring to believe what he saw before
him it couldn't be true
at that point bogus became aware of the
three men watching him intently
they had seen him gasp and stare in a
Flash
bogus staggered to the nearest chair and
collapsed into it Breathing heavily
what's the matter Claude asked it's it's
nothing he asked I'll be all right in a
moment
I thought maybe you were looking at
something Ramin said
no no no bogus said it's just my heart
it happens every now and then I'll be
all right
he must have time to think he told
himself take it gently bogus Keep Calm
these people may be ignorant but they
are not stupid and if it is really true
to a Layman what he'd seen might not
have appeared particularly impressive
covered as it was with dirty white paint
but it was a dealer's dream bogus knew
that among the most coveted examples of
18th century English Furniture are three
pieces known as The Chippendale commodes
a trifle unsteadily bogus began to move
around the room examining the other
Furniture one piece at a time
apart from the commode it was a very
poor lot
nice oak table he said not old enough to
be of any interest
this chest of drawers bogus walked
casually past the commode
worth a few pounds I dare say a crude
reproduction I'm afraid
that's a strong bit of furniture Ramen
said some nice carving on it too
machine carved bogus replied
bending down to examine the Exquisite
craftsmanship
he began to saunter off frowning as
though in deep thought
you know what he said looking back at
the commode
I've wanted a set of legs something like
that for a long time I've got a table in
my own home and when I moved house the
movers damaged the legs I'm very fond of
that table I keep my Bible and sermon
notes on it
he paused stroking his chin
these legs on your chest of drawers
could be cut off and fixed on my table
what you mean to say is that you'd like
to buy it Ramin said well it might be a
bit too much trouble it's not worth it
how much were you thinking of offering
ramen's asked
oh not much I'm afraid you see this is
not a genuine antique
I'm not so sure Ramin said it's been in
here over 20 years
I bought it at the manor house when the
old Squire died
Bert where's that old bill you once
found at the back of one of the drawers
you mean this Bert lifted out a piece of
folded yellowing paper from one of the
drawers and carried it over to his
father
you can't tell me this writing ain't
bloody old
Ramen said holding the paper out to
bogus whose arm was shaking as he took
it
it was brittle and it cracked slightly
between his fingers
the writing was in a long sloping copper
plate hand
Edward Montague Esquire deta to thus
Chippendale a large mahogany commode
table of exceeding fine wood very rich
carved set upon fluted legs two very
neat shaped long drawers in the middle
part and two ditto on each side with
Rich chaste brass handles and ornaments
the hole completely finished in the most
Exquisite taste 87 pounds
bogus was fighting to suppress his
excitement
with the invoice the value had climbed
even higher
what in Heaven's name would it fetch now
twelve thousand pounds 14 maybe 15 or
even 20.
he tossed the paper contemptuously on
the table and said quietly it's exactly
what I thought a Victorian reproduction
this is simply the invoice that the
seller gave to his client
listen Parson Ramin said how can you be
so sure it's fake you haven't even seen
it underneath all that paint
has anyone got a knife
asked bogus
Claude produced a pocket knife
working with apparent casualness bogus
began chipping the paint off a small
area on top of the commode
take a look
it was beautiful a warm little patch of
mahogany glowing like a topaz rich and
dark with the true color of its 200
years
what's wrong with it Romans asked it's
processed without the slightest doubt
this word has been processed with lime
that's what they use for mahogany to
give it that dark aged color
look closely that touch of orange in
among the dark red Brown is the sign of
lime
how much would you give
ramen's asked
bogus looked at the commode
frowned and Shrugged his shoulders I
think 10 pounds would be fair
10 pounds Romans cried don't be
ridiculous person look at the bill it
tells you exactly what it cost
87 pounds now it's antique it's worth
double
if you'll pardon me no sir it's not it's
a second hand reproduction
but I'll I'll tell you what
I'll go as high as 15 pounds
make it 50. Roman said my dear man bogus
said softly I only want the legs
the rest of it is firewood that's all
make it 35.
Ramen said I couldn't sir I couldn't
I'll make you one final offer 20 pounds
I'll take it Ramen snapped oh dear bogus
said I I shouldn't have started this
you can't back out now person a Deal's a
deal
yes yes I know perhaps if I got my car
you gentlemen would be kind enough to to
help me load it
bogus found it difficult not to break
into a run
but clergyman never run they walk slowly
walk slowly bogus Keep Calm bogus
there's no hurry now the commode is
yours
back in The Farmhouse ramens was saying
fancy him giving me 20 pounds for a load
of junk like this
you did very nicely Mr Romans Claude
told him
you think he'll pay you
we don't put it in the car until he do
and what if it won't go in the car
Claude asked
he'll just say to hell with it and drive
off
Roman's paused to consider this alarming
Prospect
I've got an idea Claude went on
he told us that it was only the legs he
was wanting so all we got to do is cut
him off
then it will be sure to go in the car
all we're doing is saving him the
trouble of cutting them off when he gets
home
a bloody good idea Ramen said looking at
the commode
within a couple of minutes Claude and
Bert had carried the car mode outside
and Claude went to work with the saw
when all the legs were severed Burt
arranged them carefully in a row
Claude stepped back to survey the
results
ski one question Mr Romans he said
slowly even now could you put that
enormous thing into a car
not unless it was a van
correct Claude cried and Parsons don't
have Vans all they've got is usually
little piddling Maurice eights or Austin
sevens
well the legs is all he wants Roman said
if the rest of it won't go in
then he can leave it he can't complain
he's got the legs
now you know better than that Mr Romans
Claude said patiently you know damn well
he's gonna start knocking the price if
he don't get every single bit of this
into the car
so why don't we give him his firewood
now and be done with it
yeah fair enough Ramin said but fetch
the ax
it was hard work and it took several
minutes before Claude had the whole
thing more or less smashed to pieces
I'll tell you one thing he said
straightening up and wiping his brow
that was a bloody good Carpenter put
this job together and I don't care what
the person says
we're just in time Roman's called out
here he comes
that's the end of the story
Okay so
did you get it did you get what happened
did you understand what happened at the
end
I hope so let me give you a summary of
the story in in my own words right in
maybe slightly more simple English so we
start with bogus he's an antiques dealer
you know what an antiques dealer is now
and bogus has a shop in London in
Chelsea and seems to be quite successful
he's got a good reputation people know
him as someone who always always has
interesting items to sell he's got a
good reputation and he sells lots of
antique furniture on a regular basis
he's doing well
when people ask where he gets his items
he just says oh it's a little secret so
he doesn't give away how he's getting
all these items of of antique furniture
he just sort of mutters something oh
it's just a little secret of mine he
says
in fact the secret is
that he's cheating
he's tricking people he's lying and
deceiving people in order to buy
precious Antiques At very low prices
basically he's a swindler or a con
artist
okay A swindler a con artist these are
names that we give to people who lie or
trick people deceive people in order to
get profit
um and sometimes commit crimes you know
so what's his trick well nine years
before
he got this idea when his car broke down
in the countryside and he visited a
nearby Farmhouse to get help he wanted
to get a jug of water because the car
had overheated
that doesn't seem to happen so much
these days does it cars don't overheat
like they used to but back in the olden
days cars would overheat quite easily
and you had to like fill them back up
with water
uh and let them cool down so anyway he
visited a nearby Farmhouse to get help
when his car broke down
and while he was there he spotted
several antique chairs
and was able to buy them from the owner
of the house who had no idea of their
real value so bogus had to probably work
quite hard to negotiate but he found the
two chairs in this Farmhouse and he
bought them at probably a good price
bogus then decided that there might be
lots of other valuable antique items in
other old homes in the country
so this was his plan that he could
um every Sunday he could go into the
countryside to a different place and
spot houses that might contain more
precious items of antique furniture and
then he could you know
try and buy them
but he decided to lie to the owners of
the houses
so that he could visit their homes and
check if they had any valuable items
which he could then buy this was his way
of actually getting inside people's
homes in order to locate any uh valuable
items
and he created a false identity for
himself pretending to work for an
organization associated with the
Victorian the the the Victoria and
Albert Museum which is a famous museum
in London full of you know interesting
old items
including some you know Priceless uh
furniture and stuff so he pretended to
work for the Victoria and Albert Museum
as part of a society for that was it the
Royal Society for the preservation of
antique furniture or something
he decided that people would not be
suspicious of him if he also dressed as
a pastor
Pastor Parson
Parson Pastor you think what spaghetti
no not that no a pastor is another sin
on him for a person vicar clergyman
priest anyway he decided that if he
dressed as a person
people would not suspect him
people would think he was harmless and
they would trust him this was his plan
and and this worked very well and one
day he visited a farmhouse in the
countryside
or one day as we we discover him at the
beginning of the story he's driven to
the top of a hill and he's surveying the
area spotting houses that might contain
some furniture he spots a few houses and
plans to visit them the first two houses
bring no results but the third house is
this Farmhouse and to his great surprise
he found an extremely rare and valuable
item of furniture a Chippendale commode
the moment when he sees it is quite
interesting because he can hardly
contain his surprise and he has to sit
down and the the farmers the people in
the the house notice something and are
you all right and he he brushes it off
and says oh it's my heart it happens
sometimes I'll be okay in a minute but
in fact he's just
um stunned at having seen a Chip and
Dale commode
as I said at the beginning of the
episode These Days one of these items
could be sold for hundreds of thousands
of pounds even millions of pounds for
example the one that I mentioned earlier
was sold at Sotheby's in London in 2010
for 3.7 million pounds that's how much a
chip and Delco mode can be sold for
today I mean that's a lot that's a lot
of money
um now bogus couldn't believe his eyes
when he saw it
it was there in The Farmhouse The
Farmhouse was quite messy
um dirty old place and in fact the
The Chippendale commode was just in the
corner of the room covered in white
paint someone had painted it white
but he couldn't believe his eyes when he
saw it and then he used all his clever
tricks to persuade the owner to sell it
to him for a very low price he made the
owner Mr Romans believe that he didn't
really need it it made him believe that
it wasn't really worth very much and
that he could easily just leave without
paying the guy some money
as far as Mr Romans is concerned getting
20 pounds 10 pounds 15 20
um you know 50 pounds that's all good
that's all better than nothing as far as
Romans is concerned
so bogus told the owner that the chest
of drawers was basically a worthless
copy and he only wanted it for the legs
which he would use to repair a table in
his home the rest he said could be used
as firewood
after some negotiation the owner agreed
to sell it for 20 pounds thinking he was
getting a good price in reality it was
only a tiny fraction of the real value
of the chest of drawers and bogus was
secretly delighted and went to his car
right uh the car by the way is also an
important part of this because bogus
actually drives a station wagon station
wagon is basically a kind of an estate
car or a car that you could use a car
that's got a lot of storage in the back
the sort of car that an antiques dealer
might drive because it would allow him
to put lots of furniture in the back
these days that would be a van really
but in in the 1950s
um a um what did it what was it called a
station wagon the sort of car with a lot
of space in the back that you could use
to transport furniture around so bogus
parked his car away from the house
because he didn't want people to see his
car because they because it would spoil
the illusion that he was a person
because Parsons don't drive station
wagons they drive little cars so he kind
of hid his genuine car around the corner
so he went off to get the car and he was
delighted uh he could hardly believe his
luck
um
but while he was gone the farmers
decided that they should make sure bogus
could fit the chest of drawers into the
car because they thought that he's a
person therefore he would have a small
Parsons car like a Morris Minor which is
an old-fashioned small English car a bit
like a mini or something like that okay
so they thought oh there's no way that
they can get this in into his car so
they decided that they would um
they would do something so that he
wouldn't try to lower the price any
further right bogus had told them that
he only needed it for the legs
so they decided to cut the legs off
which they did with a saw
what a a total tragedy this is an
original Chip and Dale commode and
they're just going at it with a saw
cutting the legs off
then
assuming that bogus would have a small
car as I said they thought it would be
best to smash up the rest of the table
with an ax just smash it to bits
just to be sure it would fit in the car
after all bogus said himself that it was
only good for firewood
so not only did they cut the legs off
this incredibly precious item but they
also smashed it to pieces with an ax
and we can only imagine how horrified
bogus was when he returned with his car
to see the smashed remains of his
precious Chippendale commode who knows
what the shock and the bitter irony of
it might have done to him
so what do you think happened listeners
what do you think happened next so the
story ended with Romans and the other
guys going oh I think we did a good job
there removing the legs and
uh Bert laid them out nice and carefully
on the floor for bogus and then they
smashed up the rest of the commode and
left it in pieces and they were like I
think we've done well here and look here
he comes now so the what happens next is
left up to our imagination so what do
you think happened next what was bogus's
reaction to this to the smashed
Furniture what do you think
I think he would have been shocked right
he would have been absolutely devastated
but he wouldn't have been able to show
it
he wouldn't have been able to show how
shocked he was which of course would
have made it so much worse for him he
would have had to try to contain his
reaction
because after all he told Romans he just
wanted the legs and the rest was
firewood he told him it was a worse
worthless
pile of wood basically
so they would expect him to be glad that
they cut up the commode for him but of
course he'd be devastated but he
couldn't show it because then they would
know the truth then the mask would slip
so who knows all this or the pressure of
trying to maintain
his front to maintain the image of the
person who just wanted some legs and
some firewood the pressure of that plus
the sheer Devastation of seeing this
furniture destroyed and the fact that he
wasn't going to get his fortune all this
might be too much for him especially if
it's really true that he has a weak
heart
so I don't know who knows what could
have happened maybe he would have
collapsed or something in shock
and his greed might have been his fatal
flaw in the end
okay a floor is like a an imperfection
in someone's character
okay so
um here are some thoughts and comments
before uh I go through the story again
and maybe just highlight some bits of
language so this is a story about the
dangers of greed selfishness dishonesty
fraud and arrogance
fraud is a crime essentially and it
involves
um deception and and profit so if you
lie and you gain profit as a result
that's a kind of fraud so for example if
you uh pretend to to to to be someone
that you're not or if you
um maybe if you if you are an art dealer
and you create a fake
um painting so you make a painting that
looks exactly like a van Gogh or a
Picasso or something
and it's not a genuine um Picasso and
then you sell it as if it is and you get
loads of money that's a kind of fraud as
well and other kinds of fraud would be
for example
um writing
um your accounts
um wrong so
um false accounting for example
declaring uh that you got only a certain
amount of income so you don't have to
pay tax or other forms of corruption
like Financial crime so that's that's
all fraud as well so bogus got what he
deserved didn't he
ultimately the precious commode is
destroyed because of bogus's greed
um in order to get the lowest price
possible bogus convinces Romans that he
only wants the legs but this wasn't
necessary this chest of drawers is worth
over half a million pounds in today's
money
bogus could have offered Romans a five
percent
um bogus could have offered Romans five
percent of that price and Romans would
definitely still have accepted right
what's five percent of of half a million
I don't know really but um
bogus's greed led him to try to get the
lowest possible price
he's trying to negotiate down to
0.001 percent
of the actual value of the property of
the property of the actual value of the
furniture that's how much that's just
ridiculous he could easily have given uh
bogus he could easily have given Romans
five percent not 0.001 and he would
still Romans would definitely have
accepted that and um you know he didn't
need to do that he didn't need to try
and get it for such a ridiculously low
price he could have given him a fair
price
and he still would have made
um 95 profit right
but bogus was greedy he wanted the
absolutely lowest price possible as a
result through an ironic chain of events
the table was destroyed table chest of
drawers
let's call it a chest
bogus bogus survives the story probably
although we don't know maybe he has a
heart attack or something at the end
but let's say he survives the story and
can probably carry on doing his work and
can even continue his nasty tricks
unless he gets discovered
but he will never ever forget what
happened
because a he missed the opportunity to
make his name and make his fortune and B
he caused the destruction of an
incredibly valuable item of our antique
furniture
and he'll have this on his conscience
right this is he'll think about this
he'll never be able to forget this it'll
be on his conscience for the rest of his
life and he won't be able to tell anyone
about it because he would have to reveal
his devious methods if he told people
what happened everyone would know that
he was a liar a cheat and a con man
and so yeah as I said before bogus chose
to hide his station wagon car in order
to convince people he was a real
clergyman and it worked a little bit too
well didn't it the commode would have
fitted in bogus car bogus's car it would
have gone in the back but the farmers
assumed that he had a small car because
they thought he was a Parson
so if bogus had just gone in and
negotiated fairly without lying without
pretending to be a person he probably
would still have got the commode albeit
at a higher price
uh and they wouldn't have removed the
legs or smashed it to pieces
now bogus is certainly very clever and
his deception is quite brilliant in fact
his whole performance of like ignoring
the commode and then going back to it
and the whole thing is quite brilliant
but he goes too far and he pays the
price
it's a good story
let's read the story again and look at
some of the vocabulary
um I've been going for about 50 minutes
I'll do some of the vocab I'm not
suggesting I'm going to do the entire
story but let's go let's let's have a
look at what we can do Mr Bogus stop the
car just short of the summit
got out and looked around so the summit
means the top of a hill
it could also be the top of a mountain
but this is in England in the home
counties probably Berkshire or something
so there are no mountains there so it
would have been the top of a hill where
you could have a good view so the summit
means the top in this case the top of a
hill he got out and looked around it was
perfect He Could See For Miles over on
the right he spotted a medium Farmhouse
to spot something is to see something
and identify it all right it's like okay
medium Farmhouse over there
Beyond it meaning here's the Farmhouse
and a bit further away Beyond it was a
larger one another farmhouse
there was a house that might be a Queen
Anne so a Queen Anne is a house from a
particular period in English History
okay a particular type of house built in
a certain period a certain style there
was a Queen Anne and there were like
there were two likely Farms on the left
likely this means it probably is
it's likely to be a farm means it's it
probably is a farm
okay so he's not sure exactly what those
buildings are but they are likely to be
Farms so these are two likely Farms over
on the left probably Farms five places
in all then he drove to the other side
of the hill where he saw six more
possibles
six more possible targets
five farms and one big Georgian house
again a Georgian house that's from the
Georgian period
um in English History a certain Style
Georgian houses are normally quite large
quite Grand looking houses
um and he said
and the book says he ruled out the
latter
the latter when you when you're listing
things the latter is the last in the the
last item in the list so we've got five
farms and one big Georgian house he
ruled out the latter so the latter means
the Georgian house the last thing in the
list of things that was just mentioned
former is the previous one and the
latter is the one mentioned after see
all right so for example if um
um oops so if I say would you like um
the English tea uh or the Japanese tea
and you say oh I'll choose the latter
that means the Japanese tea
the English tea or the Japanese tea uh
I'll choose the former that's the the
English tea although it's fairly formal
language so we don't normally use it for
choosing tea
but there you go that's what that means
so he ruled out the latter if you ruled
something out it's kind of like you
cross it out of your list you cross it
off your list so it's not included in
your consideration or in your plans
anymore you rule it out why did he rule
it out because it looked prosperous
prosperous basically is another way of
saying Rich wealthy so this Georgian
house looked prosperous it looked like
it was owned by Rich uh wealthy people
and and there was no point in calling on
the prosperous so there's there was no
reason to call on rich people so why why
not why would he not visit rich people's
houses
I suppose it's because
what bogus is looking for is kind of
probably poor houses or modest houses
houses that probably don't really houses
that are owned by people who probably
don't really know the value of antique
items the sorts of places where
some valuable items may have just ended
up
somehow just ended up there without the
owners really knowing the True Value so
bogus is targeting
poor and less educated people
which again is
um which again is pretty pretty mean
um
pretty uh
which again is pretty despicable
Behavior by bogus targeting people who
you know who don't know any better
um apart from the fact that he was at
this moment disguised as a clergyman
there was nothing very Sinister about
Cyril bogus so there was nothing very
Sinister I mean he he seemed to be uh
fairly harmless looking person really
um except for the fact he was disguised
other than that there wasn't really
anything very scary or dangerous about
him
by trade a dealer in antique furniture
with a shop in the King's Road Chelsea
bogus had achieved a considerable
reputation by producing unusual items
with astonishing regularity astonishing
means like surprising like wow people
are kind of saying
this is astonishing bogus where do you
get these items what's your secret and
boggy says oh just never you mind
and some for some reason in in our
culture we we point and tap our nose ah
just My Little Secret you tap your nose
like that
when you are
mentioned when you're talking about a
little secret that you've got ah never
you mind
little wink a little secret of mine
now bogus's little secret
was the result of what
bogus's little secret was a result of
something that happened on a Sunday
afternoon nearly nine years before this
is how he first got the idea while he
was driving in the country's side of the
country
the car had overheated and he'd walked
to a farmhouse to ask for a jug of water
okay can I sorry to bother you sorry to
trouble you my car is overheated on the
road and I was wondering if I might
trouble you for a jug of water to help
the car cool down oh yes certainly so
yes just hold on a second something like
that
while he was waiting for it he glanced
through the door he just had a quick
look through the door
being a bit nosy
and spotted a large Oak armchair huh
okay Oak is a kind of word is very
common in England it's good for making
Furniture a good solid wood
the back panel was decorated by an inlay
of the most delicate Floral Design so
the back panel of the chair the bit that
you would rest your back on was
decorated by an inlay this is another
piece of wood that was probably added of
the most delicate Floral Design so are
designed with flowers on it very
delicately made
um probably with with a lot of skill
and the head of a duck was carved on
either arm
good God he thought which is a sort of
slightly old-fashioned expression of
surprise good God
this thing is late 17th century so he
instantly identified that this item was
late 17th century that's
1690 something 1680 something
yeah valuable he poked his head in
further so he put his head in the
doorway a little further and and looked
further into the room and there was
another one on the other side of the
fireplace
yeah two two chairs like that must be
worth at least a thousand pounds up in
London so that would be about 30 000
pounds by today's money not bad
you could buy yourself a car a pretty
pretty good one when the woman of the
house returned bogus asked if she would
like to sell her chairs
right would you be interested in selling
those two chairs
and she said they weren't for sale but
just out of curiosity how much would he
give so they're not for sale but just
out of curiosity how much would you
offer for them
they bargained for half an hour to
bargain means to negotiate the price
they bargain for half an hour and in the
end of course bogus got the chairs for
less than a 20th of their value
so whatever that is 30 000 divided by
20.
it was less than that so he got them he
got them for a real bargain
because apparently he's clever right now
returning to London in his station wagon
bogus had an idea if there was good
stuff in one Farmhouse why not in others
on Sundays why couldn't he comb the
countryside to comb the countryside yeah
to comb it's the same word as the thing
you you know use to
make your hair look all neat and tidy
or not maybe in my case but comb your
hair it's kind of thin with teeth not a
brush
but uh um comb to comb the countryside
in this case to comb the countryside is
to search the countryside very very
carefully
okay
all right the isolated places the farm
houses the dilapidated country Mansions
dilapidated means it's kind of old worn
down
um damaged now because time and use has
made it old and damaged so if something
is if a house is dilapidated it needs a
lot of work to make it look nice again
okay so the isolated places the farm
houses the dilapidated country Mansions
would be his Target But Country folk
country people are a suspicious lot like
they don't trust people very easily
perhaps it would be best if he didn't
let them know he was a dealer yeah that
sounds logical he could be the telephone
man the plumber plumber is the person
who comes to fix the pipes the water
pipes in your house in your bathroom or
kitchen he could be the telephone man
the plumber the gas inspector he could
even be a clergyman hmm so then bogus
ordered a large quantity of superior
cards so these are like you know cards
with
um little
uh messages engraved on them sort of
business cards
um with the following Legend engraved a
legend is is basically a you know sort
of um words that would be printed on a
card right
um
the Reverend Cyril Winnington bogus
Reverend is a again another whoops
another word referring to
um uh clergyman
um the Reverend civil Winnington bogus
it's a good name president of the
society for the prevent for the
preservation of rare Furniture not
president of the society for the
prevention of rare Furniture but that's
kind of what he became at the end of the
story when he inadvertently
um prevented this uh rare bit of
furniture from existing didn't he he had
it destroyed
um unintentionally
in association with the Victoria and
Albert Museum so a complete lie
um he is not president of this Society
the society doesn't exist
from now on every Sunday he was going to
be a nice old person traveling around on
a labor of love a labor of love is work
that you do because you love it because
the the you're trying to achieve
something just because you love it so
it's something you're passionate about
something you work on just because
you're passionate about it and you love
it it's a labor of love for the society
compiling making a list
comparing compiling an inventory it's a
list of things of the treasures that lay
hidden in country homes the scheme the
plan worked in fact it became a
lucrative business if a business is
lucrative
it means that it makes lots of money
profitable
and now it was another Sunday bogus
parked some distance from the gates of
his first house the Queen Anne he never
liked his car to be seen until a deal
was made a dear old clergymen and a
large station wagon never seemed quite
right together but there was nothing of
value in the house so the first house
the queen had nothing of value in there
the next stop no one was home
for the third Farmhouse the third place
of Farmhouse was back in the fields so
we had to walk through the fields to get
to the house it looked rambling and
dirty uh rambling means that well a bit
like you can you can be rambling when
you speak meaning you just kind of go on
and on
in the same way a house can be rambling
one room leads to another room and it's
all a bit disorganized
it looked rambling and dirty
he didn't hold out much hope for it if
you hold out hope for something it means
you think well there I think there might
be something here but in this case he's
like no I don't think there'll be much
here no I don't I don't hold out much
hope for this place
three men were standing in the yard
that's the space at the back of the
house
when they caught sight of the small
pot-bellied man in his black suit and
Parson's collar they stopped talking uh
pot bellied if you've got a pot belly it
means you've got a round belly
like a fat stomach
okay a round pot belly maybe you'd get
one from drinking too much beer Potbelly
so this is a description of bogus he was
small he had a pot belly and they when
they saw this man this small pot bellied
man in his black suit and Parsons collar
they stopped talking and watched him
suspiciously hmm
which country folk can do sometimes
the farm owner was a Stumpy man so
that's short
with small Shifty eyes
if you have Shifty eyes it means your
eyes move around maybe suspiciously
hmm what do you want eh
the tall youth that's young person
beside him was his son Bert a short man
with broad shoulders was clawed a
neighbor broad means wide
and what exactly might you be wanting
Romans asked
so he speaks a bit like you know kind of
country person a farmer what what might
you be wanting
maybe I should push the accent a bit
more and what exactly might you be
wanting Romans asked
bogus explained at some length the aims
and ideals of the society for the
preservation of rare Furniture he
probably put on a bit of an act well I
work for the prefer the the society the
Royal Society for the uh uh preservation
of rare Furniture here's my card it's a
it's a labor of love you see I I travel
the length and breadth of the country
searching for rare items which can be
logged in the in an inventory uh at the
Victorian Albert Museum in London and in
fact if we find any special items
sometimes we may be placed to even make
an offer to make sure that the furniture
is well kept
right and um
Ramen said we don't have any you're
wasting your time
unfriendly now just a minute sir boggy
said raising a finger the last man who
said that to me was an old farmer down
in Sussex Sussex is one of a home
counties one of the counties near London
and when he finally let me into his
house do you know what I found a dirty
looking old chair in the kitchen that
turned out to be worth 400 pounds
I showed him how to sell it and he
bought himself a new tractor with the
money
he bought himself a new tractor which is
you know
bogus knows who he's talking to that
this is the sort of thing that Romans
would be interested in of course a new
tractor would be very important for him
Romans shifted uneasily on his feet so
he he sort of shifted meaning he shifted
his weight maybe moved his weight from
his left foot to his right foot
well he said that there's no harm in you
taking a look there's no harm it
couldn't hurt if you just took it took a
look that's not going to hurt there's no
harm in that he led the way
meaning like follow me I'll lead the way
he led the way into an exceedingly like
extremely filthy meaning dirty living
room
okay
and there it was
bogus saw it at once and gasped that's
to gasp
he stood staring for 10 seconds at least
not daring to believe what he saw before
him
if you don't dare to believe it it's
just like I just I he can't believe it
in fact he won't believe it he won't
even dare he's not quite confident
enough to even believe
that he can see what is before him it
couldn't be true
at that point bogus became aware of the
three men watching him intently they're
watching him intently they're watching
him studying him very carefully
they'd seen him gasp and stare
in a Flash meaning very quickly bogus
staggered to the nearest chair and
collapsed into it
Breathing heavily what's the matter
Claude asked oh it's it's it's nothing
he cast I'll be all right in a minute
I thought maybe you were looking at
something Ramin said
no no boggy said it's just my heart it
happens every now and then I'll be all
right every now and then meaning
sometimes
all right
he must have time to think he told
himself take it gently bogus Keep Calm
these people may be ignorant meaning
uneducated but they are not stupid
and if it is really true
so to a Layman what he had seen might
not have appeared particularly
impressive a Layman is a normal person
who's not doesn't have specialist
knowledge
okay so if you in in in the world of
science you have Specialists you
understand about certain you know
chemistry or physics or biology or
whatever
um but I I'm not a specialist so I'm
just a Layman
right also in law you've got lawyers who
understand all the legal terms they
understand the law and everything and
then ordinary people who haven't studied
law we are just lay men or lay people
so a lay person
is someone who doesn't have specialist
knowledge in a certain area just
ordinary person
so to a Layman what he'd seen might not
have appeared particularly impressive
covered as it was with dirty white paint
so someone had painted this thing
which I suppose is not the end of the
world because you can remove paint from
furniture apparently
so to a Layman it looked unimpressive
but it was a dealer's dream
bogus knew that among the most coveted
examples of 18th century English
Furniture are three pieces known as The
Chippendale commodes if something is
Coveted it means it's desired and
everyone wants to have it
okay
the among the most coveted examples of
18th century English Furniture are three
pieces only three The Chippendale
commodes
maybe there are more Chippendale
commodes than three maybe this is the
fourth I don't know
a trifle unsteadily a TR if some if you
are
if you say a trifle something it means a
little bit
slightly old-fashioned language
a trifle unsteadily meaning a little
unsteadily if you're unsteady you're not
steady for example if you if you do
something unsteadily it means maybe your
legs are a bit wobbly and uh you might
you know you might fall again because
remember bogus is still recovering from
the shock of seeing this thing so he
moves around the room a little
unsteadily
you know trying to regain his composure
bogus began to move around the room
examining the other Furniture one piece
at a time apart from the commode it was
a very poor lot so the rest of it was
not worth anything really
nice oak table he said not old enough to
be of any interest this chest of drawers
bogus walked casually past the commode
worth a few pounds I dare say
I dare say is like saying I suppose
a crude reproduction I'm afraid if
something is crude like in this case
a piece of furniture if it's crude if
it's if the design or the work is crude
it means it's done kind of badly by
someone who didn't really know what they
were doing
if I made a table it would be a very
crude table it'd just be like right
piece of wood legs Bang Bang
there there it is and the table's
unsteady wobbles
my crude carpentry skills accrued
reproduction I'm afraid so he's saying
that this one is not an original it's
just someone's attempt to copy that
style and they've done it very badly
very crudely
that's a strong bit of furniture Ramen
said some nice carving on it too carving
is when the wood is kind of cut into
different shapes
with a chisel you would carve wood into
different shapes you can carve a desire
carve some designs on uh on a piece of
furniture
okay nice carving said Romans
machine carved bogus replied
bending down to examine the Exquisite
craftsmanship Exquisite means wonderful
excellent
he began to saunter off if you saunter
as you kind of walk in a casual kind of
way he began to saunter off frowning as
if in deep thought
what's he said looking back at the
commode so this is all part of his act
he's pretending not to care about it
we'll Resort her off and then turn back
oh you know what
he said looking back at the commode I've
wanted a set of legs something like that
for a long time I've got a table in my
own home and when I moved house the
movers damaged the legs I'm very fond of
that table
he's fond of the table he has at home
means he likes it a lot he's you know he
feels attached to it he likes it he's
fond of it
so he's got a table at home
and the legs have been damaged by some
movers some people who moved the the
furniture when he moved to a new house
so his nice table he's got at home needs
a new set of legs
he said I keep my Bible and sermon notes
on that table
he paused stroking his chin these legs
on your chest of drawers could be cut
off and fixed onto my table
and Romans has been caught by this trick
right Romans is it's it's clever because
uh
bogus is is essentially encouraging
Romans to take initiative to now Romans
wants bogus to buy it
right Romans is like uh bogus is not
concerned but Romans now spots an
opportunity to actually sell this thing
and get some money maybe that you could
sell you know buy you could buy
something useful with it that money
and so Roman says what you mean to say
is that you'd like to buy it
well it might be were might be a bit too
much trouble no it's not worth it how
much were you thinking of offering how
much were you thinking of offering
Romans asked not much I'm afraid you see
this is not a genuine antique
it's not genuine means it's not it's not
real it's a it's a fake antique I'm not
so sure Raman said it's been in here
over 20 years I bought it at the manor
house when the old Squire died so the
manor house would be the house owned by
the
uh maybe the the Aristocrat or the sort
of the the
um
the the Lord of that area would have
would own the manor house the rich
person of the area
uh the old Squire that's probably when
the the owner of the house the owner of
the land when he died
um so so Romans bought it from the manor
house the man house would be like
Downton Abbey or something like that
I bought it from the manor house when
the old Squire died
but where's that old one old Bill
where's that old bill you once found at
the back of one of the drawers now if
you're an antiques dealer having an
original Bill like a proof of purchase
or a proof of manufacture or something
like that a piece of paper which marks
the history of that item that again adds
more value to the proper to the property
note to the item property would be a
house or something but we're talking
about furniture okay so that would more
add more value to the furniture if
there's actually a bill
and there is one for this chipper Delco
mode and Bert says you what you mean
this
and he lifted out a piece of folded
yellowing paper
right a piece of sort of yellowing so
the paper is is going yellow which means
it's old
he lifted it out from one of the drawers
and carried it to his father you can't
tell me this writing ain't bloody old
ain't
is basically sort of colloquial English
it's not strictly correct but people say
it a lot and you see it in song lyrics
and stuff like that don't you ain't
means isn't haven't aren't
right you can't tell me this writing
isn't Bloody old you can't tell me this
writing ain't bloody old Roman said
holding the paper out to bogus
and bogus is again
I can't believe his eyes that there's
actual a real bill of sale that goes
along with this thing an original one
and bogus
his arm is shaking as he takes it um
um
and it was brittle so if paper is
brittle it means it's very old and it
breaks easily
so it's definitely the original bill
it was brittle and it cracked slightly
between his fingers so it's old it's the
original one the writing was in Long
sloping copper plate hand
um this means the handwriting so the the
note is written in handwriting in a
sloping style so that's a very
old-fashioned uh style of handwriting
and probably bogus would identify it and
would know that this comes from the 18th
century
and the the the the uh the note is
written in sort of Fairly old-fashioned
language Edward Montague Esquire deter
to those Chippendale thus
very old-fashioned
we wouldn't say that these days you know
this is clearly original maybe from the
18th century a large mahogany commode
table of exceeding fine wood
very rich carved the spelling of carved
c-a-r-v-d not e d c a r v-d so not e d
not v e d which again shows that this is
from centuries ago set upon fluted legs
two very neat shaped long drawers anyway
so the note is
original
bogus was fighting to suppress his
excitement
trying to suppress excitement is keep it
down so he's obviously whoa this is the
real thing but he has to
okay just keep suppress the excitement
with the invoice the value had climbed
even higher what in Heaven's name would
it fetch now fetch meaning get
meaning what amount of money would it
get if he sold it now maybe twelve
thousand pounds 14 maybe 15 or even 20
000 pounds remember twenty thousand
pounds that would be six hundred
thousand pounds in today's money it'd
probably be worth a lot more as well
because no doubt a Chippendale commode
in 2023 would be worth even more than
that I mean as we know one got sold in
2010 for nearly four million so it
wouldn't be surprised if if it went for
about 5 million or something now
um anyway
he tossed the paper contemptuously on
the table
um
if you have contempt for something it
means you you don't give it any respect
at all you think it's worthless he
tossed the note contemptuously on the
table no
it's exactly what I thought a Victorian
reproduction
okay so the victorians
okay uh people who are around during the
reign of Queen Victoria
at the end of the 19th century they did
a lot of reproductions a lot of copying
they copied
um things like furniture and
architecture from previous periods
and uh sometimes they did it kind of
badly as well
um right in that sort of modern period a
lot of stuff would have been copied and
done quite quickly maybe using machines
and as a result those copies would have
been worthless so oh just no it's a
Victorian reproduction this is simply
the invoice that the seller gave to his
clients
listen Parson Ramin said how can you be
so sure it's fake
you haven't seen it underneath all that
paint
has anyone got a knife asked bogus
Claude produced a pocket knife and bogus
with apparent casualness so again he's
pretending to be all casual like he
doesn't care
he chipped off paint from a smaller area
on top of the commode take a look
but it was beautiful the the original
wood underneath was beautiful a warm
little patch of mahogany
a very valuable hardwood glowing like a
topaz
rich and dark with the true color of its
200 years oh
what's wrong with it ramens asked it's
process
is lying of course without the slightest
doubt this wood has been processed with
lime
now I don't really know what that means
either what can would be processed I
suppose if wood is processed with lime
it means it's people have you someone's
used lime on the wood to protect the
wood or something maybe to make cheap
wood look like more expensive wood you'd
rub lime into it or something I don't
know but he said no it's been processed
with lime
lime that's not lime the fruit but
that's lime
um a kind of mineral like chalk
okay
um
an alkaline
mineral
um how much would you give uh in Roman's
accent how much would you give Roman's
asked bogus looked at the commode
frowned with his you know made an
expression with his eyes to make it look
like he was thinking or seriously and
Shrugged his shoulders like lifted his
shoulders up and down
I think 10 pounds would be fair
okay
so it's a very unbelievably low offer
um it's about 300 pounds though by
today's standards
10 pounds Romans cried so Roman's not
Romans is not a fool
okay
he's negotiating he knows it's worth
more than that but he's got no idea of
its real value 10 pounds Roman's cried
don't be ridiculous person
look at the bill it tells you exactly
what it cost
87 pounds now it's antique it's worth
double
so bogus has got Romans exactly where he
wants him where
bogus is trying to
negotiate for something like 180 pounds
when this thing is worth what was it UH
60 I can't remember twenty thousand
so bogus has got him where he wants him
the the margins here that are being
negotiated are all wonderful for bogus
and this is just cruel what he's doing
it's just mean spirited and greedy to
try and negotiate from from that point
all the way down to
20 pounds which is what he gets it for
originally he could have just said okay
fine he could have paid Romans
you know 180 pounds and Romans would
have been very happy with that
right 180 pounds in today's money I
don't know but um ramen's gonna use that
right
but no he's not bogus isn't satisfied
with that he wants to push it as far as
he can go which is really not
not fair at all
um and boggy said if you'll pardon me
sir it's not it's a second-hand
reproduction but I'll tell you what I'll
go as high as 15 pounds make it 50.
Ramen said my dear man
bogus said softly it I only want the
legs the rest of it is firewood that's
all
make it 35 Ramen said I couldn't sir I
couldn't what a performance
I'll make you one final offer 20 pounds
I'll take it Ramen snapped oh dear bogus
I shouldn't have started this
you can't back out now Persona Deal's a
deal so Romans is all in here
yes yes I know perhaps if I got my car
you gentlemen would be kind enough to
help me load it to load the car would be
to load the um load of the furniture
onto the car
um bogus found it difficult not to break
into a run so he's walking back to the
car quickly finding it difficult not to
start running to the car to break into a
run
walk slowly bogus Keep Calm there's no
hurry now the commode is yours
back in The Farmhouse Romans was saying
fancy him giving me 20 pound for a load
of junk like this
if you say fancy that or fancy something
happening it's like well who would have
expected that to happen oh what a
surprise
it's amazing isn't it fancy him giving
me 20 pounds for a load of junk like
this
you did very nicely Mr Romans Claude
told him you think he'll pay you
so they're convinced that they've done a
really good job here in the negotiation
which is quite sweet
we don't put it in the car till he do no
we don't put it in the car Tilly do
meaning we don't put it in the car until
he pays us
and what if it won't go in the car
Claude asks asked
he'll just say to hell with it and drive
off so they're concerns that bogus is
not gonna
follow through on the deal
they want to make sure that he'll be
able to get it in the car so that
they'll get their money
Romans pause to consider this alarming
Prospect worrying alarming means
worrying a prospect is a potential thing
that could happen
hmm
I got an idea Claude went on he told us
that it was only the legs he was wanting
right
it's only the legs he wants but in this
case he told us it was only the legs he
was wanting
so all we got to do is cut him off
and then it'll be sure to go in the car
all we're doing is saving him the
trouble of cutting them off when he gets
home
a bloody good idea Ramen said looking at
the commode
within a couple of minutes Claude and
Bert had carried the commode outside and
Claude went to work with the saw so a
saw is something you'd use to cut wood
when all the legs were severed meaning
cut off Burt arranged them carefully in
a row
right
Claude stepped back to survey the
results survey mean look at the results
from a from above
just let me ask you one question Mr
Rummins he said slowly even now could
you put that enormous thing into a car
hmm not unless it was a van
correct Claude cried and Parsons don't
have vans
all they've got usually is piddling
little Morris eights or Austin sevens so
these are both types of car Old English
cars that are small piddling means small
and not very powerful
so oh dear the worm has turned
and bogus's act his act of deception is
now working against him
in the most satisfying way in this story
oh well you know we wouldn't be able to
get that in in into his car he's
probably got a small car
right
the legs is all he wants Roman said if
the rest of it won't go in then he can
leave it he can't complain he's got the
legs
yeah fair enough
that's true he did say he only wanted
the legs
now
now you know better than that Mr Romans
Claude said patiently you know damn well
he's gonna start knocking the price if
he don't get every single bit of this
into the car
so why don't we give him his firewood
now and be done with it
fire we firewood of course is wood that
you would use to burn on the Fire
so he's so Claude is kind of being
cautious and saying look you know I
think that if he can't get that in the
car then he's going to try and reduce
the price if it's just the legs
right so why don't we give him the
firewood so he so he can't complain fair
enough Ramin said but fetch the ax
an ax is a is a large tool that you
would use to chop up wood you'd chop a
tree down with an ax you swing it and
thonk Chop Chop right you chop something
up with an ax and you can you can break
something to pieces with an ax
fetch the ax meaning get the ax
it was hard work and it took several
minutes hard work because this is
this is a incredible piece of
craftsmanship a really really really
well made chest of drawers not just some
think something from Ikea which you
could kind of smash the pieces with your
with your feet and hands this is a this
is a virtually Priceless uh item of
furniture so it was very hard work it
took them several minutes but they had
the whole thing more or less smashed to
pieces
I'll tell you one thing he said
straightening up wiping his brow if you
wipe your brow this means you wipe the
front of your head after you've been
doing heavy work or doing exercise
I'll tell you one thing that was a
bloody good Carpenter put this job
together and I don't care what the
person says
yeah it was a bloody good Carpenter it
was Thomas Chippendale himself
Carpenter is someone who builds things
out of wood
I'll tell you what it was a bloody good
Carpenter to put this job together I
don't care what the person says because
the person has led them to believe it's
a crude copy made in the maids you know
only
a few decades before
ah we're just in time Romans called out
here he comes and this is where we
imagine the person rushing back over
with the with the money and the car
and to discover
his precious chip and Delco mode reduced
to Pieces smashed up and then these
three guys looking very proud of
themselves we'll put that in the car for
you now if you want
so there you go that's the that's
Parsons pleasure by uh Roald Dahl
good story isn't it
you can let me know what you think in
the comments section uh that's the end
of the episode I just wanted to say at
the end here that um this story was
actually turned into an episode of a TV
show so they made a TV series called
Tales of the unexpected it was a very
popular TV series
um and each episode was an adaptation of
one of Roald Dahl's stories okay and so
there is an episode of tales of the
unexpected for Parsons pleasure and it's
definitely worth a watch it's really
good I mean it was made in the 80s
probably so it looks kind of
old-fashioned but it's still really good
and you can find it on YouTube I highly
recommend it I'll I'll add it to the
page for this episode on my website you
can actually see Roald Dahl the author
himself he introduces the episode you
see him sitting in a nice leather
armchair and he he introduces the the uh
the episode and the acting
in the performance
um is excellent particularly by Sir John
gilgood who plays bogus now Sir John
gilgood is one of the most famous names
in British acting ever
one of the UK's most famous and highly
respected actors both on stage and on
film a proper
stage actor with an excellent reputation
so we get to enjoy the wonderful acting
of Sir John gilgood as bogus and also
the other actors are excellent too the
farmers and stuff it's really really
well done
so I highly recommend that you watch
that uh TV version of this story as well
you'll find the video on the page for
this episode on my website
um okay but that's it that's it for this
episode thank you so much for listening
thank you for watching
um and I will speak to you very soon in
another episode of my podcast but for
now it's time to say goodbye bye bye bye
bye bye bye